while the Bears wait for the Bay to
freeze there's little to do but sleep
and play giving visitors an intimate
view of polar bear life no one
appreciates this more than scientist
Malcolm Ramsay in the South Island were
working it's at the time that the Bears
are just coming on shore and we've
caught individual bears probably on the
day that they arrived ashore and exactly
the same spot we've got the same bear in
previous years the sea ice remember is
not solid so the Bears are moving over a
huge area the size of Great Britain it's
not a substrate that's constantly moving
particularly in summer with there but to
come ashore case is very broken up where
the last vestiges of ice were found can
vary by several hundred kilometers one
year to the next and yet you can swim
right ashore and is what is to us a
featureless environment and know where
they are
Malcolm's been following these animals
for 20 years they still surprise him
every year I find that the Bears do
something quite extraordinary and I'll
think why are they doing that where did
that come from what's what's going on
there I'll predict something will happen
and gosh they don't do that at all it's
something completely different
why would they do that so it's it's I
find it's no end of excitement to work
with an animal in which every year I
feel I know less and less about it
rather I realize their lives are much
richer than I ever expected
there's no doubt about it
polar bears are full of surprises much
of Malcolm's efforts to understand what
it's like to be a polar bear focus on
how these animals survive in such a
hostile environment they can walk out in
conditions that Waseem most ferocious
into them as is equivalent to a warm
spring day we've seen bears jumping into
the water on my foot period was to be a
rather chilly day and to them they just
leap into to chill down or to have fun
swimming in the water